# Development Concepts

### Panel SDK
Panel SDK is a software development kit that facilitates the development of plugins for Media Composer. It offers a collection of APIs which enables tasks susch as data querying, import, export, and more. 

### Feature Toggle Files
Every plugin, before distribution, must undergo an approval process by Avid to be loaded into Media Composer. However, during the development phase, plugin developers have the capability to install the Feature Toggle Files (FTF). These files enable the loading of the plugin without the need for the full approval process. 

### Plugin
A plugin file is a zipped bundle with .avpi extension. At a minimum, a plugin bundle contains the `avid-manifest.json` file and an icon file. There are two types of plugins: self-contained and remote. 
- **Self-contained plugin** is a plugin that incorporates the logic of a web app within itself. There is only one component of a self-contained plugin: 
    - plugin file: the zipped bundle with .avpi extension. A self-contained bundle contains everything the plugin needs, including all the web pages, Javascript files, and resources that the plugin needs.
- **Remote plugin** refers to plugin which loads a web page hosted by a remote server. The server contains all the application logic and resources which are accesscible from the plugin. There are two separate components of a remote plugin: 
    - plugin file: the .avpi file which contains the avid-manifest.json file and the icon file. 
    - server: the server which hosts the web application and the entrance page of the plugin. 

### Plugin Panel
Every plugin is represented in Media Composer as a web window referred to as either a "Plugin Panel" or "PanelSDK window". The loaded webpage associated with the plugin can be stored either within the plugin bundle itself or hosted remotely on a server. 

### Self-contained vs Remote plugin
- **Self-contained plugin** is a plugin that incorporates the logic of a web app within itself. The web app is typically compiled using webpack. 
- **Remote plugin** refers to plugin which loads a webpage hosted by a remote server. The server contains all the application logic and resources which are accesscible from the plugin. 

### avid-manifest.json file

The manifest file defines several pieces of information about the plugin, including the plugin ID, name, description, the company name, and various specifications such as authorization scope, allowed domain list, etc. Many properties in the manifest file are required, and some must be unique. It's important to consult the documentation for more detailed information. If the manifest file fails to provide any of the required information, it will not be loaded into Media Composer.

### Protocol Buffers
Protocol Buffers (Protobuf) is a free and open-source cross-platform data format used to serialize structured data. It serves as a foundation of the communication between the plugin web page and Media Composer. The PanelSDK provides two protobuf files,`MCAPI.proto` and `MACPI_Types.proto`. These files define all supported calls and data structures used for making requests to Media Composer. 

### gRPC
gRPC is an open-source, high-performance remote procedure call (RPC) framework developed by Google. It enables efficient communication and data exchange between Media Composer and PanelSDK plugins. 

### PanelSDK API
PanelSDK API is a collection of remote procedure calls (RPC) specified in Protobuf files. They enable various features, including media data retrieval, import and export of media, bin operations, among others. All supported calls are defined in `MCAPI.proto`. All data types used for the calls are defined in `MACPI_Types.proto`. These files are compiled into Javascript and included in the PanelSDK bundle. 

### gRPC-web
gRPC-Web is an open-source Javascript library that enables web browsers to communicate directly with gRPC services. It allows PanelSDK plugin to access the features provided by the API  while running in a web browser environment. Within the PanelSDK bundle, we include gRPC-Web files that are compiled from the two protobuf files `MCAPI.proto` and `MACPI_Types.proto`. To access the API's features in your application, include the following files:
```
PanelSDK/grpc-web/MCAPI_pb.js
PanelSDK/grpc-web/MCAPI_Types_pb.js
PanelSDK/grpc-web/MCAPI_grpc_web_pb.js
```

### Access Token
Each plugin, when loaded, is assigned an access token generated by an internal process and provided during the plugin loading. To retrieve the access token in JavaScript code, call `getAccessToken()` on the `mcapi` object like so: `mcapi.getAccessToken()`. It's important to note that all requests must include the plugin's access token; otherwise, they will be rejected.

### mcapi object
The `mcapi` object is a global JavaScript object made available to every plugin's web page by Media Composer. It acts as a bridge object, offering access to the access token, the server address used for plugin requests, and the ability to establish connections to Media Composer notifications. This object facilitates essential interactions and communication between the plugin and Media Composer.

### API Scope
API scope defines the set of API calls that plugins are permitted to access. For instance, if a plugin needs to access bin features, it must specify the `avid.mediacomposer.bin` scope in the `avid-manifest.json` file. This delineates the extent of the plugin's authorized API. If the plugin attempts to access a scope that is not specified in the manifest.json, it will be denied access. The API scope is specified next to each API declaration in MCAPI.proto file.

### Avid API Gateway
The Avid API Gateway is an independent process that facilitates communication between the plugin and Media Composer. When you install a new plugin or make updates, restarting both the gateway and Media Composer ensures the new or updated plugin appears in Media Composer.

**Shortcut for plugin refresh**: You can refresh plugins without restarting Media Composer by following these steps:

- Terminate the gateway process from the Activity Monitor (on macOS) or Task Manager (on Windows).
- In Media Composer, press Ctrl + 6 to open the Console Command.
- Enter "panelsdk reinit" in the console command to trigger a reload of all plugins, avoiding the need to restart Media Composer.
    ```
    panelsdk reinit
    ```
     


